Let’s create our first online repository! We pretend to be a researcher writing some code on their own computer who now wants to collaborate with others and use GitHub for it. This is a beginner scenario, avoiding separate tools and use of command line.
Create a plain text file on your computer, using a text editor of your choice.
Fill it with some (random) text.
Save the file (somewhere) on your computer, call it random.txt.
Now we open github.com and log in.
To deposit our text file, we first need to create a repository.
Click the plus button top right of the GitHub page > New repository.
In the form:
Set your own username as the owner
Choose a repository name, needs to be unique for your namespace
Add a short description of what this repository is for
Choose if you would like the repository to be public or private. If you can, always choose public, though you can also change that later.
We will not be using any template, though they can be super useful for similar projects
We want to add a README, so let’s turn that switch to on.
We do not need a .gitignore at this point. This is important when you work locally and want to exclude some of your local files from being tracked
And it is good practice to right away add a license, e.g. CC0, Creative Commons Zero.
Then click create repository.
We have now created an empty repository!
Now upload the text file, that we created earlier
Find the plus (“add file”) button next to the bigger green “code” button in your repository
Click “upload files”
After drag and dropping or finding your file from your computer, we need to commit it to the repository
For that write a short commit message that tells why you added the file. You can, but don’t have to, add an extended description
We choose “commit directly to the main branch”
And “commit changes”.
You now have created your own repository and added a file! You can explore the history to observe your progress.
The link to your own public (!) repository is your post-day 4 assignment which needs to be submitted via moodle.